Okay, so..! There are 4 textures loaded to the GPU per frame (ideally they'd all be bound at the same time and it would reference the correct 1 of the 4 rather than swapping them in and out but I'm not being that clever yet).

There's a texture for all the ground/wall tiles which are rendered first, then a separate texture containing all the entities (characters, plants, etc.) which are rendered on top. Then it's done again for a bumpmap texture frame to be used with lighting. A lighting texture is rendered based on light sources and sort-of ambient light, which uses the bump map frame for highlighting, and this and the original render (the diffuse frame) are combined together for the final image. There's a visual demo of that at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cabl0LMmlgY
Of course only what's currently within the bounds of the camera rendered rather than the entire world.

The other half of the puzzle is updates/AI to entities in the world. The great majority (all the plants in this case) have been implemented with a "only update me every X seconds" type of AI, which fakes the updates which would occur across many frames in one frame. You can sort of see that in https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_z1CreOegcM although I think I cheat in that video and update them every frame rather than every X frames.
For actual numbers, they're currently set to update every 3 seconds, so assuming there's maybe 300,000 shrubs and trees in this video, and assuming a framerate of 60fps (usually but not quite the case here) there'll be 300,000 / (60 * 3) "infrequent" updates every frame, so about 1.6k updates each frame, which is a lot, but very little happens in those updates too. The dwarves themselves do get updated every frame, but their AI is written to only perform very small updates every frame too, spreading out the load. The pathfinding is run in a separate thread so a dwarf will stand around waiting for pathfinding to complete - which in reality is usually only a couple of milliseconds so not noticable. 

Other than that nothing else is really updated - the world itself is only changed when a block is mined out which only affects that one tile and its 8 neighbours. 

As an actual answer to your question, yes the rendering uses one large render texture which is essentially a sprite sheet, and splats blocks of it to the screen in the right place, which is a very quick operation.
